+++
title = "Paper Accepted to HRI 2018"
date = "2017-11-25T23:47:43-05:00"
tags = []
author = ""
description = ""
+++

The paper "Social Momentum: A Framework for Legible Navigation in Dynamic Multi-Agent Environments", 
by [Christoforos Mavrogiannis]({{< ref "people/chris.md" >}}), [Wil Thomason]({{< ref "people/wil.md" >}}),
and [Ross Knepper]({{< ref "people/ross.md" >}}), has been accepted to [**HRI 
2018**](http://humanrobotinteraction.org/2018/). 

From the paper:

  > Intent-expressive robot motion has been shown to result in increased efficiency and reduced 
  > planning efforts for human or robot partners in implicitly or explicitly collaborative 
  > scenarios. Existing frameworks for generating intent-expressive robot behaviors have typically 
  > focused on applications in static or structured environments. Under such settings, emphasis is 
  > placed towards communicating the robot's intended final configuration to other agents. However, 
  > in dynamic, unstructured and multi-agent domains, such as pedestrian environments, knowledge of 
  > the robot's final configuration is not sufficiently informative, as it completely ignores the 
  > complex dynamics of interaction among agents. To address this problem, we focus on the 
  > generation of motion that communicates an agent's intention toward a socially compliant 
  > collision avoidance strategy rather than its destination. We contribute a planning framework 
  > that estimates the intended avoidance strategies of others, superimposes them, and generates an 
  > expressive, socially compliant robot action that reinforces the expectations of others regarding 
  > the scene evolution. This action facilitates inference and decision making for everyone, as 
  > illustrated in the simplified topological pattern of agents' trajectories at the end of the 
  > execution. Extensive simulations demonstrate that our framework consistently achieves 
  > significantly lower topological complexity, compared against common benchmark approaches in the 
  > area of multi-agent collision avoidance. The significance of this result for real world 
  > applications is demonstrated by a user study that revealed statistical evidence suggesting that 
  > multi-agent trajectories of lower topological complexity tend to enable observers to infer the 
  > intentions of actors more quickly and more accurately. 
